Avengers: Endgame wastes no time reminding audiences of what's at stake, beginning with a scene set during the final moments of Infinity War in where Clint Barton's family turns to dust before his eyes. This scene is hinted at in the trailers when Clint is shown training his daughter in archery (the very same that also started those Kate Bishop rumors), but the full scene is a heartbreaking introduction to Endgame. Additionally, Clint experiencing such a traumatic moment is what sends him on his dark path to becoming Ronin, beginning what is arguably Hawkeye's most important character arc to date.Another lingering plot that needs addressing before Avengers: Endgame can really get started is the rescue of Tony Stark. As seen in Avengers: Endgame trailers, Tony begins the film adrift in space with Nebula (Karen Gillen) in the barely functioning Benatar (the Guardian's spaceship). They've managed to leave Titan, but they've run out of fuel and the oxygen is next. Just as it looks like Tony is a goner before Endgame even really begins, Captain Marvel aka Carol Danvers (Brie Larson) comes to the rescue. Last seen leaving Earth for some cosmic adventures at the end of Captain Marvel, Carol returns just in the nick of time to save Tony and return him (as well as Nebula) to Earth, carrying the Benatar across the many light-years in record time.As the remaining Avengers reconvene at their headquarters, the discussion inevitably turns to what to do next. Their plan involves traveling to the planet where Thanos has retired, killing him, and using the Infinity Stones to bring back everyone he dusted. Unfortunately, the Avengers manage to complete only two thirds of that plan. They ambush Thanos (now disfigured and weakened from the snap) and demand to know where the Infinity Stones are, only for Thanos to reveal he used the stones to destroy the stones. With all hope at resurrecting the dead gone, Thor does what he didn't do in Infinity War - kills Thanos, going for the head and decapitating him with Stormbreaker.After killing Thanos, Avengers: Endgame jumps forward in time five years. Quite a lot happens during the time jump - Banner fully merges with Hulk, becoming "Professor" Hulk; Thor really lets himself go, becoming a fat, drunken slob; while Cap leads an emotional support group for those still reeling from the Decimation - but the most pleasant surprise is discovering that Tony Stark and Pepper Potts are married and they have a young daughter, Morgan. The Stark family has also relocated, now residing in a quaint, little cabin on the edge of a lake (though, unsurprisingly, it's still outfitted with the latest tech).Avengers: Endgame also reveals that Ant-Man aka Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) - last seen lost in the Quantum Realm at the end of Ant-Man and The Wasp - has spent these past five years in that strange, subatomic world. For Scott, however, it's only been five hours, leading him to the conclusion that time travel is possible within the Quantum Realm (just as so many had speculated ahead of Endgame's release). Once reunited with the other Avengers, they come up with a new plan: travel back in time and steal the Infinity Stones before Thanos can collect them. It's a time heist, as Scott coins it, and it leads to the Avengers revisiting events from previous films - The Avengers, Thor 2: The Dark World, and Guardians of the Galaxy - as they try to snatch the stones from their past selves without screwing up the timeline.The plan to steal the Infinity Stones from the past sends Iron Man, Cap, Ant-Man, and Hulk to the Battle of New York, Thor and Rocket to Asgard circa The Dark World, Nebula and War Machine to Morag where they wait to jump Peter Quill, while Black Widow and Hawkeye are tasked with traveling to Vormir and retrieving the Soul Stone. But retrieving the Soul Stone requires a trade - a soul for a soul. Both Black Widow and Hawkeye first argue over why it should be them who gives up their life, then they fight over it, with one tackling the other as they each try throwing themselves over the edge. In the end, though, Widow gets the better of Hawkeye, grappling and anchoring him to the cliff side and leaving herself to plummet to her death. After Black Widow's sacrifice, Hawkeye awakens in the pools on Vormir with the Soul Stone in hand.While the Avengers take part in their time heist, Endgame sees a complication arise with Nebula. As it turns out, it doesn't matter if she's the Nebula from 2023 or the one in 2014, her cybernetic implants still operate on the same network. This allows for communications received by the Nebula of the present to also be seen by the Nebula of the past - the very Nebula who is still loyal to Thanos. Thanks to this connection between the two, Thanos learns of the Avengers' plan to reverse the Decimation five years before he's even collected all the Infinity Stones. He then sends his Nebula to kidnap the one from the future, stealing her batch of Pym particles and using them to send himself - as well as his entire army - forward in time to 2023's Earth. That is where the final battle will take place, but first...A few hiccups and time travel hijinks aside, the Avengers are successful in their mission to gather the Infinity Stones from the past. Tony then creates a gauntlet using the same nano-tech armor as his Iron Man suits and it's decided that Hulk, the strongest and (given the state of Thor) most sensible of the Avengers, will attempt the snap. He puts on the the gauntlet and, at first, it appears too powerful even for him to control, but eventually, Hulk manages to bring together his fingers and snaps, wishing for all those who disappeared five years ago to reappear in the present. It works, and the first sign of their success is Hawkeye receiving a phone call from his wife just moments after Hulk's snap.Though Hulk's snap is successful in Avengers: Endgame, he isn't able to bring everyone back. (For his part, Hulk receives only some mild scarring on his arm and the right side of his body.) The Infinity Stones are powerful but they are are also specific, and Hulk is only able to bring back those who turned to dust thanks to Thanos' original snap. He even tells Clint that he really tried using all that power to bring back Natasha, but it just doesn't work. Along with Black Widow, the other characters who died in Infinity War before the snap - Loki, Heimdall, Gamora, and Vision - all stay dead.And yet, while a few key characters remain dead, that doesn't mean they don't appear in Avengers: Endgame. Tom Hiddleston's Loki, for example, isn't resurrected but the actor does reprise the role for a short scene set during the Battle of New York. Tilda Swinton's Ancient One, Robert Redford's Alexander Pierce, Rene Russo's Frigga, and Hayley Atwell's Peggy Carter all have small parts to play, as do Frank Grillo's Brock Rumlow and Maximiliano Hernández's Jasper Sitwell as the hidden H.Y.D.R.A. agents within S.H.I.E.L.D. Endgame also includes Tessa Thompson's Valkyrie and Taiki Waititi's Korg (confirming they survived the Decimation), while Zoe Saldana returns to play Gamora - the 2014-version of Gamora, that is, before she meets the Guardians.After Hulk successfully snaps half of the universe's population back into existence, Thanos attacks the Avengers compound. He first levels the building, then sends in his Chitauri army to finish off any survivors, while past-Nebula goes to collect the Infinity Stones. As Thanos waits, he is confronted by Iron Man, Captain America, and Thor, and the three core Avengers give him one hell of a fight. By far, though, the most exhilarating moment comes when Mjolnir - a past version, anyway, that Thor took while visiting Thor: The Dark World's Asgard - flies not to Thor's hand, but into Captain America's. Armed with both Mjolnir and his vibranium shield, Cap comes very close to defeating Thanos, but even when supercharged with the powers of a god, he isn't strong enough to stop the Mad Titan.Just when it appears that all hope is lost, with only Cap still on his feet staring down Thanos, the Black Order, and the rest of his army - the cavalry arrives. Every single resurrected hero along with the Sanctum Sorcerers, the armies of both Asgard and Wakanda, and even Pepper Potts in her Rescue armor join the fray, resulting in an epic superhero battle unlike anything ever seen before. Amid that chaos, Tony finds Doctor Strange and asks him if this is the one out of 14 million possible outcomes where they win, but Strange refuses to tell him. Frustrated, Tony returns to the fight, but when Thanos manages to get a hold of the Infinity Stones, he realizes what he must do. Tony attacks Thanos and rips the stones from his hand, attaching them to the glove of his armor and snapping. Thanos, the Black Order, and all of their forces disintegrate and fade to dust. Using the Infinity Stones, however, leaves Iron Man mortally wounded and dies on the battlefield surrounded by Pepper, Peter Parker, and all his friends.Following Tony's funeral, the remaining Avengers begin returning to their normal lives. For Thor, however, he's come to realize that he just isn't suited to rule the Asgardians, handing the job over to Valkyrie. Free of his kingly responsibilities but not wishing to (fully) return to his slovenly ways, Thor joins up with the Guardians of the Galaxy. Unsurprisingly, there's already a rivalry brewing between Thor and Star-Lord, with the latter trying his best to assert himself as captain. Still absent, though, is Gamora - the 2014-version of Gamora who, along with 2023's Nebula, turned against Thanos and helped defeat 2014's Nebula. Whether she eventually meets up with the Guardians remains to be seen, but it's very likely this won't be the last they see her.Finally, after Thanos is dead and Tony buried, someone must return all of the Infinity Stones (and Mjolnir) to the exact points in time from which they were taken. The man for this job is Captain America, again traveling back in time via the Quantum Realm. However, Steve chooses not to return to the present and instead stays in the past, reuniting with Peggy Carter and finally getting to enjoy that dance. Steve only later returns to the moment he left for the past once he's an old man, having spent the last 70 years just living his life. Steve then passes on the mantle of Captain America to Sam Wilson (Anthony Mackie), handing him the shield as an approving Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) looks on.




In the opening, Clint Barton is teaching his daughter archery on his secluded farm while his wife prepares a picnic lunch for them. Suddenly, Clint's daughter vanishes and the rest of Clint's family disintegrates, along with half of all life across the universe, the result of Thanos' snapping his fingers after acquiring all six Infinity Stones. Nebula and Tony Stark are stranded in space following their defeat by Thanos on Titan, but are returned to Earth by Carol Danvers and reunited with Natasha Romanoff, Bruce Banner, Steve Rogers, Rocket, Thor, and James Rhodes. The team formulates a plan to steal the Infinity Stones back from Thanos and use them to reverse his actions, but learn upon finding him that he had used the stones a second time to destroy them, preventing their further use. He tells the remaining Avengers that he did so to avoid using the Stones for further nefarious purposes. Enraged, Thor cuts off Thanos' head, saying it's what he should have done in Wakanda.Five years later, Scott Lang escapes from the quantum realm to discover that his daughter Cassie is now a teenager and that Hope van Dyne, along with half of the population, has disappeared in the snap. Rogers has been leading grief counseling sessions for survivors still struggling with the effects of the snap, while Romanoff is tirelessly keeping watch over both Earth and the rest of the universe with the help of Rhodes, Danvers, Okoye, Rocket, and Nebula. Lang goes to Romanoff and Rogers, and explains that while five years had passed for them, only five hours had passed for him in the quantum realm and the difference in time factors there. The three go to Stark, who is now raising a child with Pepper Potts, and explain their theory that the quantum realm can be used to go back in time and steal the Infinity Stones before Thanos is able to collect them. Stark initially rejects their proposal with concern about risking his family and the peace he has found, but after reflecting upon the loss of Peter Parker decides to test theoretical models that would work with Lang's quantum tunnel, eventually finding one that works.With Stark now on board with the plan, the remaining Avengers set out to reassemble their team. Bruce Banner has now embraced the Hulk as a part of him, and has melded his own consciousness and the Hulk's together into one. Romanoff, after hearing reports from Rhodes of an assassin that operates with similar methods to Barton, goes the Japan to track him down. Barton, consumed with grief after the loss of his family, has been operating under the mantle "Ronin" while brutally massacring cartels and gangs in order to try and improve the world that's still left. Natasha finds him in Japan and after some convincing, he agrees to rejoin the team in order to try and bring his family back. Banner and Rocket go to the small town of New Asgard, where Valkyrie and the last survivors of Asgard have settled. They there find Thor, who has become overwhelmed by guilt over failing to kill Thanos in Wakanda. Thor has become overweight, his hair and beard are overgrown, and he spends his free time eating junk food, getting drunk, and playing Fortnite with his friends Korg and Miek. Thor begrudgingly agrees to return to the Avengers after some convincing from Rocket and Banner.After testing the quantum time machine on Barton, who confirms that it works, The Avengers are reunited with a plan - Banner, Rogers, Lang, and Stark embark to retrieve the Time, Mind, and Space stones during the battle of New York in 2012. Banner goes to the Sanctum Sanctorum, where he is informed by the Ancient One that taking the Time Stone from her time line would prevent Stephen Strange's future efforts to stop Kaecilius from destroying the laws of nature. She eventually concedes the Time Stone to Banner after he informs her that Strange had given Thanos the stone in his time line, implying Strange had intended for a specific sequence of events to occur for Thanos to be defeated. Banner also promises the stones' return to their proper time lines in order to prevent any ill effects. Lang and Stark attempt to steal the Space Stone after the Avengers confiscate it from Loki. Lang gives Stark's past self a cardiac arrest by pulling a circuit in his artificial heart, while Stark steals the briefcase housing the Tesseract when nobody is looking. Their plan is thwarted when Stark drops the briefcase after he is accidentally hit by the Hulk. Loki then steals the Space Stone and uses it to escape custody. Rogers succeeds in stealing the Mind Stone from undercover Hydra agents, but stumbles across his past self, who mistakes him for a disguised Loki. After defeating past-Steve, Rogers meets back up with Stark and Lang, who now must figure out another way to get the Space Stone without running out of the limited supply of Pym Particles that allow them to travel through the quantum realm. Lang returns to the present with the Mind Stone while Rogers and Stark devise a plan to steal the Space Stone from a U.S. Army installation in the 1970s, while stealing further vials of Pym Particles in order to make the journey back home. While there, Rogers sights Peggy Carter and Stark has an meaningful conversation with his father Howard.Rocket and Thor travel to Asgard to retrieve the Reality Stone before Malekith uses it against the Nine Realms. While in Asgard, Thor is reminded that his mother, Frigga, would die soon and has a chance encounter with her while Rocket steals the Aether, the vaporized version of the Reality Stone, from Jane Foster. The two return to Earth after Frigga counsels Thor and he retrieves his hammer Mjolnor, elated to discover that he is still worthy of it. Nebula and Rhodes travel to Morag to steal the Power Stone before Peter Quill does. As Rhodes returns to the present with the Power Stone, Nebula malfunctions and remains on Morag. With two consciousnesses operating on Nebula's systems, Thanos and Ebony Maw discover the presence of future Nebula and go to kidnap her. Nebula realizes what has happened and tries to warn the others, but is too late. Thanos scans her memories and discovers the Avengers' plan, and sends the more loyal past Nebula back to the present as a spy. Barton and Romanoff travel to Vormir to retrieve the Soul Stone, though are conflicted when Red Skull, keeper of the Soul Stone, informs them that the stone can only be retrieved by sacrificing someone they love. The two fight over which will make the sacrifice, with Romanoff ultimately taking the fall, while a distraught Barton returns to Earth with the Soul Stone.After everyone has returned to the present on Earth, Stark, Rocket, and Banner set out to craft a gauntlet to wield the stones, one constructed from the same nanotech of Stark's latest Iron Man suit. Banner volunteers himself to wield the gauntlet and bring back everyone that disappeared in Thanos's snap, reasoning that he can withstand both the gamma radiation and the immense pain brought on by using the stones. He succeeds, though they are almost immediately attacked by Thanos, who has been brought to Earth by the impostor Nebula, destroying the quantum portal in the process. Thanos reduces the Avengers headquarters to rubble, splitting the team up and causing the gauntlet to fall into Barton's protection. The past Nebula is killed by her future self as she attempts to take the Infinity Stones from Barton, while Rogers, Thor, and Stark confront Thanos, who decides he will instead use the Infinity Stones to destroy the universe and create one in his vision. The three fight Thanos one on one, with Rogers confirming Thor's theory that he is worthy of wielding Mjolnor, but are each bested by Thanos. Soon after Thanos' army lands on Earth, T'Challa appears before Rogers, along with all of the Avengers and other allies revived by Banner, before launching an assault on Thanos and his army. After a lengthy battle during which Stark is reunited with Parker and Quill is reunited with past Gamora, Thanos wrestles with numerous Avengers for the Infinity Stones. When he's bound by Wanda Maximoff's energy, Thanos orders Glaive to have his ship fire multiple energy blasts, nearly devastating the Avengers' efforts. Captain Marvel reappears, taking out Thanos' ship while fighting for control of the gauntlet. Using the nanotech from the new gauntlet, Stark maneuvers the Infinity Stones from Thanos' hand to his own and uses them to turn Thanos and his entire army into dust, triumphantly stating "I am Iron Man." Parker and Potts console Stark as he dies from exposure to the Stones' radiation.Following the battle, The Avengers hold a funeral for Stark, whose Mark I arc reactor is floated out on the lake next to his house. Barton and Wanda Maximoff take solace in the fact that Romanoff and Vision, who did not return in the snap, would be proud of their victory over Thanos. Thor makes Valkyrie the Queen of Asgard and joins the Guardians of the Galaxy in order to find his true purpose, free of the burden of royalty and leadership for the first time in his life. Barton returns home to his family and Parker returns to school, where he is reunited with his best friend Ned. Meanwhile, Rogers is tasked to go into the past to return the stones and Thor's hammer to their original time lines, but decides not to return to the present and to instead live the rest of his life in the past with Carter. He reappears before Sam Wilson and Bucky Barnes as an old man, and passes his shield and the mantle of Captain America on to Wilson. A brief flashback shows Rogers and Carter finally sharing the dance they never got to have in their living room, truly happy at last.
